ABUJA – The National Commission for Museums and Monuments (NCMM) says it will stop the springing up of illegal museums accros the country by some Nigerians without the authorisation of the commission.
NCMM’s Assistant Chief Curator Ezinwanyi Nwachukwu made this known in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Wednesday.
Nwachukwu also said that the commission was also working toward ensuring that proper sanctions like shutting down of the illegal museums would be visited on violators of the directive.
According to her, there is need to protect the heritage sites by developing museums in the country thereby forcing those indulging in the act out of the system.
“The commission is responsible for the creation of museums and as such proper procedure must be followed by Nigerians who seek to establish one.
“ The Director-General of the commission, Malam Yusuf Usman, has directed the compilation of both private and federal museums in the country.
“This, he is doing, to detect some of the illegal museums and the proliferation of museums and I think this will go a long way in helping the country,’’ she said.
She said that the commission had commenced the rehabilitation of museums around the country so as to further improve the heritage sites.
The curator commended the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) for its role in preserving the country’s monuments and sites as well as the recovery of stolen artefacts from across the world.
She further said that the Islamic museum sited in Ilorin would enable those who did not know about Islam to learn more about the religion.
While encouraging Nigerians to always visit museums, she said it would assist citizens to promote the country’s culture and heritage.
“We are the custodians of our cultural artefacts; we have a lot of artefacts and also professionals who takes care of these artefacts.
“So, the museum is the best place where you can keep these artefacts and will be well preserved,’’ she said. (NAN)