SOKOTO – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Sokoto State has reached consensus in 17 out of the 23 local governments in the state assembly primary elections.
The State Chairman of the party, Alhaji Ibrahim Milgoma disclosed this when he addressed newsmen on the exercise in Sokoto on Saturday.
“The party will only conduct the primary elections in Dange/Shuni, Sokoto south, Sokoto north, Gwadabawa, Bodinga and Tambuwal local governments.
“Efforts are on to reach consensus even in these local governments before the day runs out”, Milgoma added.
He said the party had given all its bona fide members a level-playing ground to contest, so as not to disenfranchise any person.
Milgoma stressed that employing the consensus system had reduced a myriad of intra-party squabbles.
The chairman said that the primary elections will be conducted across the 23 local governments to ”ratify and approve the consensus reached.”
He appealed to the members of the party and the aspirants to maintain orderliness and continue to be loyal and disciplined.
Milgoma also stated that the consensus arrangement was being mulled for the national assembly and gubernatorial primary elections of the party.
”We are optimistic that the PDP will emerge victorious in the general polls in 2015 and President Goodluck Jonathan is capable of steering the nation to greater heights.
”The President has delivered to Nigerians and he is striving hard to redress all the current challenges plaguing Nigeria, including insecurity, and these challenges are not peculiar to Nigeria”, Milgoma, averred.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), however, reports that the exercise had not commenced at about mid day across the state.
It was gathered that the electoral materials were being awaited from Abuja.
”We are waiting for the Returning Officer to our local government who has also told me that he is in Sokoto waiting to take delivery of these materials like the ballot papers.
“Some of the materials have arrived in Sokoto. The rest of the electoral panel members deployed to Sokoto from Abuja are already airborne and are very close to the Sokoto Airport.”
Alhaji Abubakar Dange, Chairman of PDP in Dange/Shuni Local Government told NAN at Kwannawa Primary School, venue of the exercise for the area, that “we are ready and the exercise will be conducted hitch-free.” (NAN)