Abuja- The Rotary Club of Gwarinpa, District 9125, on Friday awarded scholarships to 52 indigent students of the Junior Secondary School, Gwarinpa I. The chairperson of the scholarship scheme, Mrs Kisayo Okunokwa, told newsmen that the scholarship awards was part of the club’s Basic Education and Literacy Programme. “Education is part of the Rotary International’s area of focus. We want children to go and stay in school. ”So, Rotary Club of Gwarinpa instituted this to help the children here to remain in school. “So we take a group of students and we want to see them through the junior secondary school “We don’t want them to get to JSS three and say they can’t write the junior WAEC because they don’t have the money to register. “So that was why we took up this programme. ”We have started and they will graduate with us and we will sponsor them. “If everybody will do a bit of what they can do, we will help each other because government cannot do everything alone. “So we have to help one another so that the world will be a beautiful place for all of us. Also speaking, Mr Chide Onuogu ,the Assistant District Governor, said that the students would be placed on the Club’s scholarship scheme for three years “In addition to issuing the school a cheque to take care of all the required school charges to keep them in school, our club is also giving them Rotary branded school bags and exercise books. “ And would also officially inaugurate a planning team for the commencement of an Interact Club in the school.’’ In his contribution, the President of the Club, Mr Emeka Anuforo, said the objective of the club was to foster the ideal of service as a basis of worthy enterprise. Anuforo said that the Rotary International estimated that over 67 million children worldwide had no access to education and more than 775 million people over the age of 15 were illiterate. He said that the goal of the scholarship scheme was to strengthen and support basic education and literacy. In her remark, Mrs Uwem Philip, the Principal, urged the beneficiaries to live up to expectations. Philip thanked the club for giving 56 students the opportunity to get back to school with their contemporaries. Responding on behalf of the students, Miss Ugwu Sonice, thanked the club for the kind gestures. “My mates and I are very grateful for this scholarship.We thank you for giving us the opportunity to be in school again. ”We promise to work hard in order to justify this scholarship.” (NAN)