LAGOS – The Lagos Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Friday scored the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) low for hitches experienced as the Permanent Voter Card (PVC) distribution began in the state. Mr Joe Igbokwe, the Lagos APC spokesman, told newsmen in Lagos that the commission was not adequately prepared for the exercise. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that INEC had on Nov 6, postponed the PVC distribution in nine local government councils in the state due to logistic reasons. However, the distribution could not kick off in many polling units in the other 11 councils where the exercise was scheduled to begin on Friday. Many residents, who came out to collect their cards on Friday could not do so due to late arrival of INEC officials and materials. Igbokwe described the hitches that characterised the first day of the exercise as “a great shock’’ to the party. He said that that no meaningful distribution was done in most of the polling units where distribution was supposed to take place. “We mobilised our people despite the odds, yet, INEC officials did not show up. “Voters card signifies the beginning of the electoral process. If INEC fails, what are they going to do? “We don’t want anyone to mess up this process because the election must hold next year,’’ Igbokwe said. He urged INEC to put its house in order because the patience of the party was running out. Igbokwe, however, disclosed that the party wanted simultaneous distribution of the cards in the state. “We cannot continue to give wrong signals to the world. Let INEC sit up and stop giving excuses,’’ the APC spokesman said. Igbokwe, however, urged voters in Lagos not to be deterred but to remain calm and be ready to collect their cards. “INEC must put all necessary processes in place before we go to the polls. “Lagos State declared today work -free day. We have just wasted today. “It is money, time and energy wasted. Time has come to stand up to build this country,’’ he said. NAN reports that INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner, Dr Adekunle Ogunmola, in reaction to the hitches, had said the commission would make up for the lost time by extending the exercise by one day. It was initially scheduled to hold from Friday to Sunday. He said that the exercise would also close at 5p.m daily and not 4p.m. as earlier scheduled. (NAN)