ABUJA – Chief Edem Duke, the Minister of Culture, Tourism and National Orientation, on Tuesday, said all is set for the hosting of the 2014 World Travel Awards in Nigeria. Duke, who made the disclosure at a news conference in Abuja, added that the Africa and Indian Ocean Gala Ceremony slated for Sept. 5 would take place at Transcorp Hilton, Abuja. He said “the hosting of World Travel Awards by Transcorp Hilton, Abuja, in partnership with the Ministry Culture, Tourism and National Orientation, will launch Nigeria into the prestigious club of prime global hospitality destinations. “With the recent successful hosting of the World Economic Forum on Africa, Abuja is emerging as a frontline convention destination in Africa. “We feel truly proud to host this important gathering, the first of its kind in Nigeria.” Mr Valentine Ozigbo, the Chief Executive Officer, Transnational Hotels and Tourism Services, owners of Transcorp Hilton Abuja, said the ceremony would celebrate the country. He said “the event will celebrate excellence in travel, tourism and hospitality in Africa and the Indian Ocean region. “The award will bring together leaders of industry from across both regions to recognise the achievements of companies in the past 12 months. “As a multiple award winning hotel, Transcorp Hilton, Abuja, will welcome hundreds of leaders of industry to the Nigerian capital, as it hosts the red carpet event in its congress hall. “We welcome the opportunity to host the prestigious World Travel Awards as it will provide us another opportunity to showcase the best of Nigerian hospitality. “It will also reinforce the position of Transcrop Hilton, Abuja, as the choice destination for high profile events.” The General Manager of Transcorp Hilton, Abuja, Mr Etienne Gailliez, said all hands were on deck to make the hosting of the event a memorable one for stakeholders. He said “we are poised to replicate our recent successful hosting of the World Economic Forum and deliver a world class experience at the ceremony.” Mr Graham Cook, the President and Founder, World Travel Awards, said he was delighted to visit Nigeria for the first time. He said the event would be the most competitive Africa and Indian Ocean Gala Ceremony. (NAN)