The National Working a Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party will meet on Wednesday to consider the requests for waivers by some aspirants who want to contest the Adamawa State governorship primaries of the party. The meeting, which is expected to be presided over by the National Chairman of the party, Alhaji Adamu Mu’azu, will hold at the national campaign headquarters of the party, popularly called Legacy House, at Maitama, Abuja. Investigations by our correspondent showed that Mu’azu will table the matter before the members of the NWC. A former Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crime Commission, Mallam Nuhu Ribadu tops the list of governorship aspirants who defected to the ruling party with the aim of contesting the party’s primaries in the state. Ribadu has also sent a letter to Mu’azu in which he was begging to be be granted a waiver. In his letter dated August 16, Ribadu said, “I wish to humbly write to apply for a clearance/waiver to enable me aspire for position on the platform of this great party. “As a fresher in the party, I have duly obtained my membership, paid required dues. I hereby tender photocopies, including my voter’s card for your necessary action.” Apart from him, another aspirant who was a former Military Administrator of Lagos State, Brig.-Gen. Mohammed Marwa (retd.) had also asked for a waiver. [eap_ad_1] Both of them were members of the All Progressives Congress before they decided to pitch their tent with the ruling party. The National Publicity Secretary of the party, Chief Olisa Metuh, told our correspondent that issues of waivers could only be discussed at NWC meeting. “The NWC is meeting tomorrow and such issues are discussed at the meeting. It may come up at the meeting,” he added. Also speaking on the matter, the National Secretary of the Party, Prof. Wale Oladipo, said it was not only in Adamawa State the party had received applications for waiver but from other states of the Federation, saying that all applications would be treated on merits. Meanwhile, Sen. Girei Abubakar has joined the league of other aspirants on the platform of the ruling party. Girei, whose form was picked for him by his political associate, Sen. Michael Tika after the payment of N11m, said though other contestants were good aspirants, he remained the better candidate for the job. He said, “We have picked his intention and nomination forms. He stands a good chance to pick the ticket and if nominated by the PDP, he will do well and defeat all other candidates.” Girei, who was in the Senate between 1999-2003, said he was not afraid of Ribadu. Apart from Ribadu and Girei, those in the race include the Acting Governor, Umar Fintiri; a former Special Adviser to President Jonathan on Political Affairs, Ahmed Gulak; a former Military Administrator of Lagos State, Brig.-Gen. Mohammed Marwa (retd.) and a former Minister of State for Health, Idi Hong. (Punch) [eap_ad_4]