The Kwara State Government says the state is currently free from the deadly Ebola Virus. This is consequent upon the receipt of negative test result on the only suspected case of the disease from Lagos University Teaching Hospital  (LUTH ). Special Assistant,  Information to the State Governor and member, Kwara State Committee on the Prevention & Control of Ebola Virus, Prince Deji Oni made the announcement in Ilorin on Saturday. “It would be recalled that the rumor mill was agog in the State some days ago about a reported case of ebola infection in the State. As a responsible and responsive government, we swung into action by closing down the hospital where the suspected case was reported and immediately isolated the patient at the Sobi Specialist Hospital, Ilorin where necessary medication was administered on the child and the blood sample taken to Lagos to ascertain what the real cause of his sickness.” “The test result from LUTH has subsequently proven negative. Effectively, Kwara has no confirmed case of Ebola at the moment. However, the public is urged to remain vigilant and report any suspected case to the nearest hospital while continuing to take precautions against infection. [eap_ad_1] We wish to remind the general public that shortly after the country recorded the first case, the Executive Governor of Kwara State, Dr.Abdulfatah Ahmed, as a proactive measure, inaugurated a 14 man Committee on the Prevention and control of the Virus in the state. He also ordered the immediate procurement of laboratory equipment and reagents which are already stationed at the Harmony Advanced Medical Diagnostic Centre, Ilorin. Also purchased were personal protective equipment for health care givers who well motivated to deliver on the job.” The State had also set up 3 Isolation Centres, one each in the 3 senatorial districts-Sobi Specialist Hospital, Ilorin, General Hospital, Omuaran and General Hospital, Okuta. A special training was also organised for health care givers on how to handle Ebola patients. Presently two ambulances has been dedicated to handle any suspected case of the Virus. Meanwhile, a seven-man committee headed by the chairman of the Local Government has been set up in each of the 16 local government areas of the state on the Prevention and Control of the Virus. We wish to assure the good people of the state that as a responsible and responsive government, we will continue to keep the populace adequately informed about efforts at keeping this dreaded virus at bay in the state [eap_ad_4]