ABUJA – The Anglican Bishop of Ngbo, Ebonyi State, Rt. Rev Christian Ebisike, has urged the Federal and State Governments to spend more resources on research, to find possible cure for the Ebola virus. Ebisike , who spoke to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Monday, applauded the Federal Government N1.9 billion intervention fund to contain the Ebola outbreak in Nigeria. “The government has not told us what portion of the intervention fund would be spent on research to find a possible cure for the disease. “We have seen a lot of awareness and publicity and I commend the state and Federal Governments’ efforts for that. “But I want them to encourage more research from Nigeria and indigenous scientists, the outbreak of Ebola started in Africa and I think the solution will also be in Africa,’’ he said. The Anglican cleric also called for judicious use of the fund, and advised the government to consider involving faith-based organisations and non-governmental organisations in its intervention programme. “I have served as the National Coordinator of the Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion) on HIV and AIDS and we know the controversy associated with some of these charity funds. [eap_ad_1] “Often, the people who need help do not get it and the money ends in endless workshops. I pray that Ebola fund will not go that way,’’ he said. Ebisike said the Church of Nigeria recognised Ebola outbreak as an international public health concern and had taken precautionary measures to support national efforts to control the outbreak. “We advise Ebola patients or those who think they have made contact with patients to seek medical help but we are not ignorant of the power of God to heal. “We have also reviewed our order of worship in the Holy Communion service by advising on exchange of peace (handshake) and the manner we administer communion bread and wine,’’ he said. Ebisike urged Nigerians not to panic but follow standard practices issued by the health authorities on how to avoid, detect and monitor the outbreak of the virus. Also, Ven. Ben Idume , who spoke at a Church service at St. Matthews Anglican Church Maitama, explained to worshipers the provisional advice issued by the Church of Nigeria to contain the spread of Ebola. Idume said the Primate of the Anglican Church, Archbishop Nicholas Okoh, had directed that handshakes during Holy Communion service be suspended. According to him, Okoh also directed that disposable cups should be used to administer the wine during Holy Communion service while communicants will be provide an option to dip communion bread into the a cup. He added that the leadership of the Church had also advised that more non-Holy Communion services be conducted in the church during the period of the Ebola outbreak. the cleric said the new directive had not foreclosed the age-long tradition of the Anglican Church, which recognised Holy Communion as a core sacrament. (NAN) [eap_ad_4]