Pan-African multi sector investment group Mara this week joined the likes of Amazon, Apple and The Economist by having its case read at the world famous Harvard Business School (HBS), Massachusetts. Mara’s case is one of very few African businesses to be included in the Harvard’s Executive Education Program. Its inclusion further acknowledges the greater depth in which Western markets are looking at Africa as an exciting frontier market, with huge potential for investment and growth. The case, which was written by HBS Professor Eugene Soltes and Research Associate Sara Hess, is now officially part of the business school’s curriculum. It was first read on Friday 28th February in the presence of Mara Founder, Ashish J Thakkar, and an audience of over 150 students from more than 40 countries. It now forms part of HBS’ ‘Program for Leadership Development’. According to Ashish J Thakkar, Founder of Mara Group and Mara Foundation, “It’s such a great honour for Mara to be recognised by Harvard Business School as a case study of best practice in African business. I feel proud and humbled to see Mara flying the flag for what I believe is the world’s most exciting and dynamic continent.” “Mara is only one example of many businesses that are thriving in Africa. I hope its inclusion in the HBS curriculum goes some way to encouraging further foreign investment in Africa,” Ashish said. Earlier this year, US President Barak Obama revealed plans to host a US-Africa summit in August to further strengthen ties with “one of the world’s most dynamic and fastest-growing regions”, where the Sub-Saharan region alone witnessed a 5 percent growth in GDP over the past three years. Not only are economies growing and diversifying across the region, Africa is also seeing greater political stability, a surge in foreign direct investment and improving regional cooperation. The HBS faculty has pioneered the case method to be a profound educational innovation that presents the greatest challenges confronting leading companies, nonprofits, and governmental organisations. Through the strategy, students experience and become adept at analysing issues, exercising judgment, and making difficult business decisions. *Ventures Africa