ABUJA – Sen. Aloysius Etuk (PDP-Akwa Ibom) on Tuesday said the country’s independence was a well deserved socio-political self determination that must be remembered. Etuk told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja that the country and its people had reasons to celebrate the Oct. 1 independence because the day had been memorable. According to him, the independence has afforded the country to marshal out its social, political and economic structures. Etuk said that Nigerians should not fail to continually salute the ingenuities of those who fought to secure self rule for the country. On the progress made by the country since independence, Etuk said “the country has developed in line with the available resources’’. “Mind you, successive administrations have tried in various capacities to uplift the country’s infrastructure and human capital development. “These can be seen in the growth in education, network of roads, housing, transportation and other institutional embellishment, including growth in per capital income. “We may not be where we want to be, sure, but we are steps far off from the point the colonialists left us,’’ Etuk said. On his part, Dr Stanley Adum, a development strategist, said “nations do not play down their independence because they view it as a critical achievement’’. He said that the public should not be discouraged with latest happenings, adding that “no nation just attains greatness without going through situations’’. [eap_ad_1] According to him, the people must rise above sentiment to assist the current administration to deliver the right democratic dividends for the betterment of all. “As a kid then, no occasion appealed to me like the independence. As a member of the Boys Scout, we were made to appreciate and celebrate Oct. 1 independence with relish. “That spirit must resonate again for us to enjoy our country and to serve her with sincerity and not grudgingly as we see now,’’ Adum said. However, Mrs Alice Emeka, a housewife, said the country’s independence was given to free the people from poverty, slavery and obscurity. “I am not happy because all attempts by successive government to achieve these have failed. “Poverty inhabits amongst us today when there is enough to go round. The officials must begin to serve the people right,” she said. (NAN) [eap_ad_4]