LAGOS – The Lagos State Deputy Governor, Mrs Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, on Thursday said about 12,000 residents had benefited from the first phase of the state’s Life Skill Empowerment Programme. Orelope-Adefulire spoke with newsmen in Lagos shortly after her visit to some of the centres. She commended the beneficiaries for their zeal, determination and passion toward the training. “I have gone round the centres and the participants have really done well. “I can testify without mincing words that they are good; just within a short period, they have learnt a lot,” she said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that 3,500 women in different parts of the state had already undergone the pilot scheme of the empowerment programme in July. In August, the state government extended the programme with its official launch, expecting that 20,000 additional women will benefit across the state, irrespective of their ethnic and religious backgrounds. [eap_ad_2] NAN also reports that the programme is currently running in 10 centres across the state, while the second phase will commence in 10 other centres in October. Orelope-Adefulire said that the programme was a routine exercise of the state government to address poverty and unemployment. She said the government was determined, not only to eradicate poverty in the state, but also provide a window of opportunity for idle and vulnerable residents to be empowered and make a better living for themselves. “Many more still desire to acquire such skills to become economically empowered and self-reliant. “This sprung up the need for this programme,” she said. The deputy governor said participants were thoroughly trained in catering, cake and snacks production, soap-making, beads, hairdressing, make-up and headgear, textile designs, events and decoration, amongst others. She said that the government provided the training and other logistics required at no cost to all participants. According to her, the only requirement is to be a legal resident of state, which requires the registration card of the Lagos State Residents Registration Agency (LASRRA). She enjoined participants to take advantage of the training programme to learn definite skills or vocations of their choice. “You must ensure you don’t stay idle when this programme ends; establish yourselves in the various vocations you have learnt,” she said. Orelope-Adefulire said the programme was basically meant for women, retirees and single parents and not for the youth. She advised the youths to enrol for long-term training programmes held at the skill acquisition centres as well as the technical and vocation colleges spread across the state. (NAN) [eap_ad_3]