ABUJA – The Minister of Health, Prof. Onyebuchi Chukwu, on Monday said Nigeria would offer specialised training to 15 health personnel from three West African countries affected by the Ebola Virus Disease. Chukwu made this known when he received the African Union (AU) Commissioner for Social Affairs, Mr Mustapha Kaloko, in Abuja. He said the health personnel comprising nine field epidemiologists and six laboratory scientists would be selected from Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea. The minister said the training scheduled to take place in Nigeria would last for three weeks, but did not disclose when the training would commence. He said that the move was part of “a broader measure’’ taken by the Federal Government to assist those countries hit by the virus to contain its spread beyond their borders. “It is our belief that unless the virus is contained in the most affected countries, Nigeria will continue to be at risk because of its policy of non-restriction of movement across the sub-region. “I believe that Nigeria should help its neighbours to contain the scourge. “But for now, we are focusing on helping to build the capacity of the health workers in those countries at our own cost. “So, Nigeria will not rest until Ebola virus is completely tackled in West Africa,’’ he said. Chukwu said that on the long-run, countries around the sub-region would be encouraged to train more of its health workers using Nigerian facilities to build a stronger network against common diseases. The minister said that the Federal Government was also planning “a more comprehensive masters programme for health personnel from countries in the sub-region that could last for up to two years”. He said that the effort was geared toward building the sub-region’s capacity to contain deadly diseases such as Ebola virus, HIV and Lasa fever. He said the Federal Government had procured drugs worth N50 million to be donated to Sierra Leone as part of Nigeria’s contribution to curb Ebola virus in the country. Chukwu said that Nigeria had also outlined a comprehensive programme to help its neighbours to successively fight Ebola virus. The minister expressed optimism that West Africa could stem the tide of Ebola virus within the shortest possible time, especially if countries were committed to the sub-regional’s plan of action against the disease. “Ebola virus in West Africa can be brought under control within the next six to seven months, if all countries in the sub-region work in unison,” Chukwu said. The minister also called on the countries still plagued by Ebola virus to develop a strong communication and social mobilisation network to help build public confidence. [eap_ad_1] He said that most people in the affected countries were antagonistic to their governments’ efforts toward ending the scourge because they have nothing to eat in their homes. “We need to look at the humanitarian aspect of the problem such as food supply. “You cannot be talking about Ebola virus when people are hungry. So, the campaign has to be a complete package, otherwise it may not yield the desired results,” he said. Also, Kaloko called for coordination among all stakeholders in the region. He said working with a discordant tune would be counter-productive, adding that the enormity of the crisis required a comprehensive approach. Kaloko said that the virus had crippled the health system and economies of the countries hit, and called on Nigeria to play a leadership role in ending the scourge in the sub-region. He also called on the governments in the sub-region to build stronger confidence in the health workers deployed to areas worst hit by the virus. The World Health Organisation (WHO) had appealed to Nigeria to send health workers to other West African countries still battling with the Ebola. (NAN) [eap_ad_4]