IKEJA – One of the survivors of the Ebola Virus Disease , Dr Morris Ibeabuchi  on Thursday said he got the virus because the index case,Mr Patrick Sawyer,  lied about his illness in the hospital, First Consultants Medical Centre, Obalende, Lagos. Sawyer, a Liberian, reportedly came into Nigeria while carrying the virus and was admitted at the First Consultant Hospital in Lagos, where he later died of the disease. He was said to be the source of the disease in Nigeria which led to the death of at least 19 people. Ibeabuchi, who was one of the doctors who first had contact with Sawyer and later contracted the virus, spoke when he and four other survivors were received by Gov.Babatunde Fashola in Ikeja. He said the failure of Sawyer to disclose his actual state of health in the hospital made him believe he was down with a minor illness and that encouraged him to have close contact with the Liberian. Ibeabuchi explained that Sawyer and the ECOWAS official who brought him to the hospital never told him he had Ebola or that he collapsed at the airport as a result of his ill health. “I was the first person that received Patrick Sawyer the day he was rushed to the hospital. I was talking to him on the sick bed and being a doctor, you just have to examine your patient. “After much examination, I asked him the cause of his problem but he lied to me.Even the ECOWAS protocol officer who came with him did not say anything. “Sawyer lied that he was in a conference and that he was weak and was rushed to the hospital as a result. He never told me he had Ebola and that he collapsed at the airport. “I took his samples and took it to late Dr Stella Adedevoh  and  results later showed that he had Ebola even as another ECOWAS protocol officer actually confirmed that Sawyer actually collapsed at the airport “, he said. Ibeabuchi said he started developing Ebola symptoms after Sawyer`s death and that he was later taken to quarantine  at the the Isolation Centre in Yaba, Lagos. The doctor said that it was by the grace of God and the efforts of health workers at the facility that he survived, adding his coming out was still a miracle. “My surviving the virus is still a miracle because at a particular time when the stooling and vomiting was much I thought the end had  come. “But today I am the happiest person on earth because I survived it. I thank God for today and thanked the state governor for all he did for us“he said. Another survivor, Dr Akininiyi Fadipe, who also had contact with Sawyer at First Consultant Hospital said he thought he had malaria when he actually had the virus. He said it was after a series of tests that the he was actually told he was suffering from the virus. Fadipe said the news devastated him and he thought he could not survive it especially as the virus was haemorrhagic in nature. “I was so devastated but kept the faith. It was at a time of the doctors’ strike and the few doctors around kept encouraging us. I thank God today and my surviving the problem has proven that Ebola is not a death sentence“, he said. Mr Dennis Echelonu, another survivor, who lost his nurse wife to the virus said his contracting the virus was out of his struggles to save the life of his dying wife. “My case was different, I wasn`t among the doctors. My wife Justina Echelenu, happened to be one of the nurses that cared for the index case. “It was while I was trying to care for her to save her life that I was infected with the virus.But I thank God for everything and the state government for seeing to our case. “Only God knew why what happened happened but we thank God we are out of it“, he said. Miss Adaora Igonor, who also contracted the virus at First Consult Hospital, said workers at the hospital took a big risk to save the life of Sawyer and humanity. Mrs Kelechi Emenua, who contracted the disease from her late doctor husband in Port Hacourt, thanked the state government for its support.