NEW YORK – The U.S. government on Tuesday said it has earmarked over 100 million dollars in response to the Ebola outbreak in West Africa. The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) announcement last week of plans to make available up to 75 million dollars in additional funding. A statement from USAID, made available to newsmen in New York, said that funding would support the African Union’s (AU) urgent deployment of trained and equipped medical workers to West Africa to help combat the Ebola outbreak. “The U.S. is committed to working with the international community to help bring this outbreak under control as soon as possible, and welcomes the AU’s leadership to mobilise the African response to the crisis. [eap_ad_2] “This funding from USAID and U.S. Department of State will be used to transport approximately 100 health workers to Liberia, Guinea, Nigeria and Sierra Leone. “This includes 25 doctors, 45 nurses and other essential personnel to manage and run Ebola treatment units (ETUs) that isolate and treat those affected by the disease, helping to minimise the spread of Ebola,’’ it noted. The statement also said that the U.S. contribution would be used to transport and sustain the AU medical workers deployed across West Africa, in addition to providing them with the emergency supplies and health equipment. “USAID is also concurrently providing resources for 1,000 new beds, 130,000 sets of personal protective equipment, and 50,000 hygiene kits,’’ it added. According to the USAID Administrator, Dr Rajiv Shah, the government is committed to supporting the AU’s response to the urgent needs across West Africa as a result of the Ebola disease. “We can and will stop this epidemic, but it will take a coordinated effort by the entire global community,’’ he said. He said that the World Health Organisation (WHO) and non-governmental organisations working on the ground in the region continue to emphasise the need for well-trained health care workers to respond to the Ebola outbreak. He said that Ebola outbreak was the largest and most devastating in history. Shah also said that critical care workers, nurses, doctors and physicians assistants could join the historic response by registering at www.usaid.gov/ebola. “A global and coordinated effort is required to combat the outbreak, and the U.S. remains committed to working with the AU and international community to stop the spread of Ebola. “ By saving lives and the U.S. will continue to stand by the governments of West Africa to help stop this outbreak,’’ he added. (PANA/NAN)[eap_ad_3]