ABUJA – The All Progressives Congress (APC), has postponed its  ward congresses in the FCT to Monday due to logistic challenge. The Chairman,  Congress Committee of  the FCT,  Alhaji Abubakar Wurno, made this known in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Saturday in Abuja. “ We have started the sales of the forms for ward congress in the FCT in which many aspirants have picked the forms. “ As usual, all the aspirants that have purchased the forms will pass through screening and accreditations,”  he said. He said the committee held a meeting with the FCT interim officials of the party to rub minds on how best to conduct the exercise with a view to ensure justice and fair play. According to Wurno, voting for ward officials will be through open ballot system where voters will stand behind candidates of their choices. He, however, said that the local government elections would be conducted through secret open ballot where people would choose their candidates secretly and cast their votes openly. He emphasised the commitment of the party to conduct election that would meet with international standard, adding that “ our hope is to conduct election in the most harmonious way “. Wurno appealed to aspirants and their supporters to be guided by the constitution and guidelines of the congress with a view to guarantee peaceful atmosphere during and after the congress. “ I can tell you that from my assessment so far, the aspirants have shown commitment to abide by the rules and regulation of the congress to ensure hitch free exercise. “ In every election, there is a loser and a winner, if an aspirant loses in an election; it is not the end of his or her life. “Continuity and supremacy of APC are what matters not the ambition of any individual, ‘’ he said. Similarly the APC in Bauchi state  has postponed the ward congress in the state. Speaking to the News Agency of Nigeria NAN) on Saturday, Malam Bappa Tafida, Interim Public Relations Officer of the party said that the delay followed logistical problems. Tafida added that officials from the party headquarters in Abuja had already arrived Bauchi. “We are unable to start the exercise today (Saturday) due to some logistical problems. “Supervisors from the party headquarters in Abuja have already arrived Bauchi and we are now meeting with them to sort things out,” he said. He further said that the date of the congress might be shifted to Tuesday or Wednesday. The party had on Friday said that it was set to conduct  the exercise on Saturday.(NAN)