ABAKALIKI – Dr Samuel Odoh, a lecturer in the Department of Political Science, Ebonyi State University (EBSU), Abakaliki, has called for support for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) ahead of 2015 general elections.
Odoh told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abakaliki on Wednesday that INEC needed the support of the political stakeholders to enable it to conduct credible polls during the period.
According to him, cooperation and partnership of politicians, political parties and opinion leaders with INEC were required for smooth and successful conduct of credible, free and fair general elections.
“As the nation prepares to go to the polls in 2015, it is imperative that various political stakeholders including politicians, parties and opinion leaders should mobilise support for INEC.
“The greater the support INEC receives from these critical stakeholders, the more credible and violent-free the election is likely to be.
“Therefore, it is my expectation that these stakeholders will rally round INEC by preaching peace, avoid the use of thugs to rig elections and to play according to the Constitution and the Electoral Law,’’ he said.
Odoh called on politicians to guard against inflammatory or seditious statements during campaigns and condemned ‘’the undemocratic processes’’ used by some political parties to picking candidates for the elections.
According to him, such methods are undemocratic and can lead to litigations that might erode electoral fortunes of political parties.
He said that the development had led to divisions in political parties which had led to defection of members to other political parties while members had approached the courts to set aside some of the exercises.
“There is need for leaders of political parties to respect and obey their parties’ constitutions in the conduct of party affairs to reduce political tensions,’’ he advised.
The don stressed that aggressive sensitisation and awareness campaigns were needed to effectively mobilise the electorate for the forthcoming polls, saying that the measure would reduce voter apathy. (NAN)