CALABAR – The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Cross River on Wednesday picked an economist, Mr Sylvester Nsa, as the running mate to Mr Odey Ochicha in the 2015 gubernatorial election.
Nsa’s choice was announced after APC’s special executive meeting at the party’s secretariat along Marian Road in Calabar.
The Cross River APC State Chairman, Mr Usani Usani, said the choice of Nsa was a unanimous one, after due consultations by the party buffs.
Usani said Nsa’s choice arose from “political exigency’’ and was informed by positive electoral values ‎it could bring to the party.
“We have made a choice of the running mate for our governorship candidate after a successful governorship primary which was adjudged to be free and fair,’’ he said.
While speaking on Nsa’s choice, Ochicha said: “I am very happy to have a young and vibrant economist from Calabar South as my running mate.
“He is expected to join us to drive our vision of bringing free education, affordable health care and world class infrastructures to be anchored on the economic drivers of agriculture, tourism and manufacturing to turn the state to a true tourism destination.
“We shall do this through the quality of our character, charisma and competences which will give the APC government an edge over other political parties and candidates in Cross River.’’
Reacting, Nsa promised ‎to work with his Ochicha to bring quality and purposeful change to the people of Cross River.
While commenting, one of the state’s APC chieftains, Mr Cletus Obung, said the party took into consideration the socio-political situation in Cross River in picking Nsa.
“We have taken into account the sociological politics of Cross River, with the voting bulk of the state from Southern Cross River.
“The voting strength and age limit are important to the party in the state.
“It is a generational change aimed at changing the state’s economy, which has been driven to comatose, to regenerate and reinvigorate Cross River,’’ Obung said.
Nsa, 41, is an economist with more than 12 years post-NYSC experience in oil and gas, as well as the hospitality industry and entrepreneurship development.
Born in Calabar South to the popular Nsa family, he is ‎a graduate of Business Management from the University of Calabar, and married with three children.(NAN)