ILORIN – The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kwara on Thursday declared that its botched Dec. 5 governorship primary had reunited members of the party into a stronger family.
Dr Rex Olawoye, the State Publicity Secretary of the party, said this in a statement issued at the end of the executive members’ meeting in Ilorin.
He said the meeting was called primarily to consider all factors that led to the failure of the exercise.
The two-page statement was signed by Olawoye, copy of which was made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN).
“It is important to let the public, party members and supporters know that in spite of the rancour, there is no division in our party,” Olawoye said.
He said that what happened was expected of a party where people of intellect, weight and competence existed to compete for just one position.
“Ours is not new as many states in the federation experienced similar situation,” Olawoye said.
He said where people of high caliber were competing for a post as it was with the PDP in Kwara, heat must surely be generated.
Olawoye, however, cautioned the opposition not to start jubilation over the issue, expressing confidence that the party would come out of the crisis stronger and better.
He said members of the state executive council of the party apologised to the party delegates, aspirants and its supporters for the inconvenience the aborted exercise had caused them.
Olawoye said the rescheduled primary would be conducted in an atmosphere of peace and transparency that would be devoid of shady deals.
The PDP spokesman said that the party executive would be fair to all aspirants and ensure free, fair and credible governorship primary.
He appealed to the national body of the party to fix a new date for the exercise in Ilorin.
The publicity secretary also appealed to all the 12 governorship aspirants to be calm, adding that the executive members were elected to serve the party without fear or favour.
“We assure the aspirants that the next primary will guarantee fair treatment to all the aspirants. (NAN)