ABUJA – President Goodluck Jonathan has assured Nigerians that his administration remains committed to health sector reforms and will adopt measures necessary for effective implementation of the National Health Act.
The president gave the assurance in Abuja on Thursday during an interactive session with stakeholders in the health sector under the auspices of the Health Sector Reform Coalition (HSRC).
Represented by his Senior Special Assistant on National Assembly Matters, Hajiya Saudatu Sani, Jonathan acknowledged the fact that implementation of the law would be another herculean task.
He said that his administration held in high esteem, the wellbeing of all citizens hence his decision to assent to the bill.
“I want to assure you that the new law will be implemented to the latter because this administration adheres to the rule of law.
“I recognise that fact that the health of all Nigerians is far more important than my personal aspiration or that of any individual.
“I therefore want to assure you that necessary steps will be taken to ensure that this law is implemented,’’ Jonathan said.
Earlier, Dr Mohammed Lecky, the chairman, Health Sector Reform Coalition (HSRC), commended the president on behalf of the group for assenting to the national health bill.
Lecky, who likened the law to the United States’ Affordable Care Act, said it would among other things address inequalities, disparities and social protection for all Nigerians.
He added that the new law would also address the issue of incessant strikes by workers in the health sector.
Lecky however urged members of the coalition to work towards assisting the government in implementation of the law.
“We recognise the fact that the Health Act remains a framework for which we need to quickly reorganise, restrategise and refocus to take on the undoubtedly arduous task ahead of developing appropriate policy guidelines to make it work.
“We pledge our commitment to work with constituted authorities at all levels and with other stakeholders in ensuring the people’s ownership and for the full implementation of the law.’’
In his remark, Dr David Olayemi, the representative of Save the Children, Nigeria, urged stakeholders not to relent until the law was fully implemented.
He said the challenge for stakeholders was to mobilise and sensitise Nigerians to the benefits of the new law.
“We will not go to bed; we will not rest until all Nigerians take full ownership of the law and identify their respective rights to good medical care as enshrined in the law.
“ For us members of this coalition, the job has just started, we cannot afford to lose sight of the issues that will come up; we will definitely monitor its implementation to the latter,’’ he said.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that members of the coalition including representatives of the Market Women Association of Nigeria attended the interactive session.
NAN recalls that the President Jonathan recently signed into law the National Health Reform Bill to the admiration of stakeholders in the sector. (NAN)