ABUJA – The Nigeria National League (NNL) on Monday in Abuja awarded three points and three goals to Kwara United for their abandoned week 30 match against Ranchers Bees of Kaduna.
A letter from the league secretariat to the clubs, obtained by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), indicated that three Ranchers Bees’ players and two officials were also banned for one year.
NAN reports that the decision followed the attack by Ranchers Bees’ players and officials on match officials, leading to the Dec. 19 match in Abuja being abandoned.
The match was a 28-minute affair, leading from the earlier 62 minutes played in November when the match was first abandoned at 2-2.
“We write to inform you that we have duly received the official match reports which indicate that the match was violently disrupted after the centre referee awarded a penalty kick to Kwara United FC.
“It was reported that the attack on the match officials was initiated by a player, Taju Ojo, and was joined by his fellow players, Omo Attah and Mansir Adamu.
“It was further reported that the team’s reserve bench, led by the Team Manager, Ali Nayara, and the coach, Tele Ibrahim, invaded the pitch and physically assaulted and inflicted injuries on the match officials.
“In view of the above, in line with the rules and regulations of the NNL and pending ratification by the Organising and Disciplinary Committee of the Nigeria Football Association (NFA), three points and three goals are hereby awarded to Kwara United.
“This is in line with Article 4.3 (1) for encroachment, which caused the discontinuation of the match.
“The three players and two officials involved in the assault are hereby banned for a period of one year, for leading the assault on match officials.
“This is in line with Article 6.0 (2) of the rules guiding the league,” the letter reads.
It added that Ranchers Bees were also fined the sum of N1 million in line with article 4.3 (1) and 4.3 (5).
“Ranchers Bees shall also pay the sum of N200,000 for the assault on match officials.
“The fines must be paid to the NNL within 14 days of receipt of this letter,” the letter further stated.
NAN recalls that the remnant of the NNL Group A week 30 match between both teams was abandoned on Dec. 19 in Abuja after 20 minutes.
This was after the Bees’ players and officials attacked centre referee Charles Ozigbo for awarding a penalty kick to Kwara United.
The 28-minute match was the remnant of an abandoned second round meeting in Kaduna, which had ended at 2-2 after 62 minutes.
Kwara United had needed a win from the match to gain promotion to the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL), while the Ranchers Bees needed a draw.
With this development, Kwara United have now gained promotion to the NPFL for the 2014/2015 season.(NAN