Lagos- The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Federal Constituency primary election in Lagos State did not begin early in many venues.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the election started at about 3p.m. in many of the venues due to late arrival of materials.
Distribution of materials began at about 2.30p.m.
The police and members of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps were in all the venues to maintain law and order while officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) observed. A total of 58 aspirants contested for 24 PDP tickets for the House of Representatives for Lagos State. Of the number, five were unopposed, according to the party’s Publicity Secretary in the state, Mr Taofik Gani. In Ikorodu Federal Constituency, Mr Ola Animashaun defeated two other aspirants to clinch the ticket. Mr Okoosi Zaid, the Chairman of the Electoral Committee for the constituency, declared Animashaun the winner, saying that he polled
30 while Mr Tanimola Shonubi followed with 29 votes. A total of 65 delegates participated in the Ikorodu which took place at the De King’s Hotel on Sabo Itoikin Road, Ikorodu. In Kosofe Federal Constituency, all the 38 PDP delegates endorsed Mrs Olushola Hassan as the party’s flag bearer in the constituency. The Chairman of the Electoral Committee, Alhaji Nurudeen Lawal, said: “We have a sole aspirant, who automatically qualifies as the candidate.
“A sort of referendum was done by the delegates, affirming her candidature.’’
The Kosofe Local Government Area PDP Chairman, Mr Mufutau Babalola, said the party was ready to compete with other parties in 2015.
Inside the Gongola Hall of the Niger Palace Hotel, venue for the PDP, Lagos Mainland Constituency primary for the House of Representatives, delegates were not present as at 2:30p.m.
Only 10 security operatives including policemen and members of the civil defence corps were on ground awaiting the arrival of the delegates and election materials.
NAN observed that some party loyalists were loitering around the hotel, apparently waiting for their leaders and delegates.
Some minutes later, four officials of INEC arrived at the venue to monitor the exercise.
One of them, Mr Victor Enenche from INEC headquarters, Abuja, regretted that the primary had yet to commence.
“We were told that the PDP official bringing the election materials was still in Abuja waiting to board a flight to Lagos.
“We came all the way from Abuja and have to remain here to give a report of the event,“ he told NAN.
Those who contested in the constituency are Messrs Tajudeen Agoro and Olukemi Banjo
In Shomolu Federal Constituency, Mrs Tolulope Ebun won with 24 votes in the election held at the PDP secretariat, Pedro.
She defeated Ayokunle Abimbola, Adenike Shobajo, Adebowale Adesegun and Adelani Adeniyi.
Ebun said that she was happy at her victory.
“I thank God for giving me this victory. It will be an opportunity for me to develop youths in my area,” she said.
Mrs Aduke Maina, a Leader of the party in the constituency, said that the election was free and fair.
Maina said that the defeated aspirants would support the winner during the general elections because they all belonged to the same party.
Meanwhile, the PDP Women Leader in Ikorodu, Mrs Dorcas Aleshinloye, has urged the party members to support aspirants that would become the party’s flag bearers.
Aleshinloye told NAN in Lagos that there was the need for unsuccessful aspirants and their supporters to back the candidates.
She said that such support would enable the party to win in the 2015 elections.
The women leader said that she was optimistic that the party would secure many seats in Lagos in the general elections.
“ We will present credible candidates, and I do not have doubts that we will win,’’ she told NAN.