ABUJA – Over 3,050 delegates from across the federation are to vote to ratify the position of some members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) National Working Committee (NWC) and President Goodluck Jonathan’s endorsement at its National Convention.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the convention, holding on Wednesday and Thursday at the Abuja Eagle Square.
The members of the PDP NWC whose position would be ratified through voting by the expected delegates are Alhajai Adamu Mu`azu, the party`s National Chairman and its National Secretary, Prof. Wale Oladipo.
The delegates would also ratify the position of the PDP National Auditor, Mr Wole Adeyanju.
Although President Goodluck Jonathan had been endorsed by all organs of the PDP as its sole presidential candidate for the 2015 presidential election, delegates are also expected to revisit and affirm his endorsement.
The ratification of President Jonathan and the affected members of the PDP NWC will be done by the delegates on Thursday.
Mr Olisa Metuh, the PDP National Publicity Secretary, had earlier said that although President Jonathan had been endorsed as the party`s sole presidential candidate, he had to be ratified by election.
This, he said, was in line with the provisions of the PDP constitution.
“Immediately after Thursday, when our endorsed candidates will officially be the candidate of the party, we will welcome the opposition to issue based campaign.
“Issues based on performance, ideology and manifestoe, not lies and propaganda,’’ the PDP spokesman said.
He added that the PDP desired political campaigns ahead of the 2015 general elections to be elevated above the usual insult, name callings, lies and propaganda by politicians in the opposition.
Metuh urged the opposition to limit its campaigns to issues based on the manifestoe and the alternative ideas to develop the country.
He expressed optimism that with President Goodluck Jonathan`s antecedent in promoting the country`s unity, stabilising the polity which had led to sustaining democracy, the PDP would emerge victorious at the 2015 presidential election.
The PDP spokesman, while commenting on the insistence of Prof Akasuba Duke-Abiola, one of the widows of chief MKO Abiola, to remain in the PDP presidential race, said she was welcomed.
“Nobody and nothing can stop her from running for election as long as she has complied with the party`s requirements and observed the election guidelines.’’
NAN reports that the Eagle Square, venue of the PDP convention,has been decorated for the event, while security around the area has been beefed up.
Over 100 diplomats, 30 foreign chapters of the PDP and party stalwarts from across the federation are expected to attend the two-day convention.(NAN)