Dr. Dakuku Peterside, governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC has called on everybody of voting age in Rivers State to ensure that they vote wisely come February 2015 because their vote is their power. He said this at Port Harcourt Township during a visit to the Aborigines.  The APC candidate who was in the area to consult with political leaders and chiefs of Port Harcourt Township charged people of the state to be diligent and painstaking in deciding who becomes governor of Rivers State next year. “Even at the risk of sounding repetitive, let me again restate the fact that everything about our survival and wellbeing rest squarely on our decision of who becomes governor. This choice I must say, will determine so many things: whether we will grow, live in peace, send our children to school, earn the respect of other Nigerians, maintain our infrastructure, earn a living and so on.” [pro_ad_display_adzone id=”10″] Peterside called on voters to investigate the past of all those who want to be governor before casting their votes. “Today my brothers and sisters, I urge you to look for the man of peace. You know as much as I do that if some of these people become governor, peace will depart from our land because by their past, you shall know them. Even look at their language, it is war and trouble. “When they are elected, they will remember the person who hurt them yesterday and of course you know what follows because they have become powerful. I was a former Commissioner of Works, what did I do when I had opportunity to serve? These are the questions that will shape our decision.
[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”8″]
“We must watch out for those who are easily power drunk and those who will not be accountable to anybody. When power enters a bad man’s hand, it will be dangerous. We must elect a governor that will maintain the peaceful atmosphere of today. We know those who are against all the good things we hold dear and we must ensure that we use our voting power to reject them” Peterside promised among other things to partner with the residents of the waterfront to work out a master plan for the redevelopment of the waterfront to make it more habitable and an envy of other parts of the city.