LAGOS – The Director of MTN Foundation (MTNF), Mrs Aishatu Sadauti, on Tuesday said that 1,205 students had been given scholarships to study courses in science and technology in 2014.
Sadauti made the disclosure in Lagos during the 5th MTNF Science and Technology Scholarship Scheme and 3rd MTNF Scholarship Scheme For Blind Students from the South-West zone.
She also said that 167 brilliant blind students would receive scholarships to study any course of their choice.
“’Today, we are formally presenting scholarship awards to 367 brilliant Nigerian students in public tertiary institutions in the South-West zone.
“This comprises of 340 Science and Technology students and 27 blind students.
“’Previously, successful students from the Eastern and Northern parts of Nigeria received scholarship awards which was presented to them in Owerri, Imo, and Abuja,” the director said.
According to her, the students have demonstrated the “Can Do” spirit which is one of the core values of MTN Nigeria.
“Thus, we are here today to celebrate academic excellence in students who have worked extremely hard and who unquestionably deserve an opportunity to continue to pursue their dreams of a higher education.
“Today, we also recognise the exemplary effort of a special group of students who have to overcome daily challenges in their quest for a brighter future.
“To all the beneficiaries I say congratulations. I also assure you that the MTN Foundation will continue to support you as long as you maintain the required Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) scores every year.
“We make and fulfil this same pledge every year and this is evident today with the scholarships for beneficiaries,” she said.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the foundation pays each student N200,000 annually for academic pursuit in Science and Technology.
The Executive Secretary of the Foundation, Ms Nonny Ugboma, said the scholarship was based on merit as over 7,000 applied for it but over 1,500 students sat for the test.
Ugboma urged the beneficiaries to remain in the scheme because after graduation, the Foundation would see them through gaining employment.
Mr Okechukwu Aninweke, the Head of Lagos zonal office of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), said the world was going toward Science and Technology.
Aninweke commended the foundation for giving awards to blind students irrespective of the courses they were studying.
He urged the beneficiaries to live up to expectations by sustaining the scholarships.
One of the beneficiaries, Temitope Osho thanked the foundation for the gesture, saying that it would motivate him to study harder. (NAN)