The All Progressives Congress (APC) governors, under the aegis of the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF), said yesterday that President Goodluck Jonathan should be held responsible for the attempt on the life of one of its national leaders and former Head of State, General Muhammadu Buhari. The governors, in a statement titled: PGF Condemns Attempt on Buhari, Holds Jonathan Responsible, noted that the incident happened two days after Gen. Buhari urged Jonathan to stop waging war on Nigerians but to devote more time to the war on terrorism. The governors condemned the attack, adding that “the double bomb explosions in Kaduna, the loss of innocent lives and what was clearly an attempt to assassinate former Head of State and leader of the APC, General Muhammadu Buhari”, were not coincidences. The PGF restated General Buhari’s statement to President Jonathan that it is unwise and against the spirit of social democracy that many innocent people were being killed in the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP’s) quest to demobilise the APC and retain power at all cost. The governors said the Federal Government had failed in its fundamental responsibility of providing security for Nigerians, yet accusing the opposition in order to shift the blame for the low-intensity war going on in parts of the country. [eap_ad_1] The statement reads: “Particularly worrisome is the statement credited to the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Kenneth Minimah, that soldiers were deserting the Army for fear of Boko Haram. Our question is: what happened to the vast sums of money devoted to security and defence in the last four years of the Jonathan presidency? Is the desertion of soldiers linked to the theft of money meant for military equipment? “We call on the Federal Government to take urgent and radial steps to investigate the assassination attempt and make its finding public. In the meantime, we urge President Jonathan to manage his obsession with power and work for the citizens of this country. “It is a great shame that Nigeria, under President Jonathan, has become the most dangerous place in the world in terms of deadly terrorist attacks. While we rejoice with General Buhari and others who narrowly escaped death, we commiserate with the families who have lost loved ones in the explosions and other attacks across the country – whether by terrorists or nameless, faceless assassins.” (The Nation) [eap_ad_4]