 Almost two-thirds of voters, including half of Conservative supporters, want the next government to be tougher with big business, amid widespread concern over executive pay and ethics, according to a survey. The Populus opinion poll for the Financial Times will be seen by supporters of Ed Miliband as ammunition for his campaign against “predatory capitalism”. Almost half of all voters agreed with the statement that the conduct of big business was a bigger threat than action by unions, with 13 per cent disagreeing. Business leaders admit that parts of corporate Britain have dismal levels of public trust, leaving companies vulnerable to political attack and intervention at next May’s election, exactly one year away. “At a time when the business climate is getting better, I think the political risk is heightened for business,” said John Cridland, director-general of the CBI employers’ body. The poll of 4,111 voters found net public trust in business was highest for supermarkets and airlines and lowest for companies involved in payday loans, and tobacco. It found 44 per cent of voters would be more likely to support a party if it were tougher on big business; those demanding action include 50 per cent of Tory supporters, 63 per cent of Lib Dems, 67 per cent of Ukip supporters backers and 72 per cent of Labour. Almost 60 per cent of voters said it was good that parties were campaigning on proposals to change the way that big business operates, including 52 per cent of Conservatives, 62 per cent of Ukip voters, 66 per cent of Lib Dems and 68 per cent of Labour voters. The poll will encourage Mr Miliband’s belief that Labour’s attack on “business as usual” will resonate beyond the party’s traditional supporters. He has promised new regulation of energy companies and a power bill freeze, the break-up of the biggest banks and tougher public interest tests on foreign takeovers, prompted by Pfizer’s bid for AstraZeneca. Chuka Umunna, shadow business secretary, said the findings revealed that there were “issues of trust” in business as in politics and that it was important for business leaders to engage with the public. George Osborne, chancellor, believes Labour’s policies will reinforce the idea that the party is anti-business, but the poll suggests that the Conservatives have to tread carefully. (FT)