Former Kwara State governor and chieftain of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Senator Abubakar Bukola Saraki has dropped his ambition to fly the party’s Presidential in the 2015 presidential election. Senator Saraki said he was suspending his presidential ambition in the interest of the country and the party. He said this was the time for all well meaning Nigerians to fall in line and become rank and file soldiers in the struggle to reclaim Nigeria. The Senator who announced his decision to suspend his presidential ambition on Sunday on his Twitter handle said that the issue of fixing Nigeria could not be done by any individual effort. According to him, fixing Nigeria is an assignment that goes beyond the power of any individual or party and beyond individual’s ambition and zeal. “Fixing a nation like Nigeria with daunting challenges that have accumulated over the years, will take a combined effort. Due to this, I believe that as we move forward to the next elections, now is the time for every patriotic Nigerian, particularly those in the political terrain to base their ambitions and interest in the context of the country’s overall interest.” He said: “After months of wide but careful deliberations and consultations with my family, friends, political associates and supporters, today, I am announcing the suspension of my Presidential Bid in the interest of our country and party. [eap_ad_1] “As it stands, I have been deeply humbled by the spark that my prospective candidacy has ignited among Nigerians across Nigeria and abroad. Young people, youth groups, and stakeholders from all geo-political zones have sought the change that they wish to see. “These young people by their overwhelming support have not only encouraged my candidacy, they have endorsed the change that they desperately crave. As complicated as the political outlook of 2015 currently seems, now is the time for well-meaning Nigerians from all works of life to fall-in-line and become rank-and-file soldiers in our struggle to reclaim our nation. “I have always maintained that I did not leave the ruling party for the opposition because of any personal interest. Anyone who understands Nigerian politics would know that it takes serious courage, rugged doggedness and self-sacrifice to do that. “Therefore, whether it is on the issue of the party or all other issues that I have been pushing in my position as a Senator of the Federal Republic, the primal purpose that drives me is the desire to see a better and more purposely governed Nigeria.” [eap_ad_4]