NEW YORK – The United Nations on Monday said it is in touch with Nigerian authorities, through the World Health Organisation (WHO) on how it contained the spread of the Ebola Virus Disease (EVD). The Spokesman of the UN Secretary-General, Stephane DuJarric, said this while briefing UN correspondents in New York. The briefing followed the WHO official declaration of Nigeria as Ebola-free after 42 days with no new cases. The WHO representative, Rui Vaz, who spoke in Abuja, said it was a “spectacular success story.” He said “Nigeria won the praise for its swift response after a Liberian brought the disease to Lagos in July.’’ NAN reports that the WHO also officially declared Senegal Ebola-free on Friday. At the Monday briefing, Dujarric said Nigeria’s success story could be copied to successfully contain the disease in West Africa. He added that “Nigeria’s success story means that Ebola can be stopped with functional health service and commitment.’’ NAN recalls that in September, the UN Secretary-General, Ban Ki-Moon, had commended President Goodluck Jonathan for Nigeria’s efforts at containing the spread of the virus in the country. Ban gave the commendation at a meeting he held with Jonathan on the sideline of the 69th Session of the UN General Assembly. In a related development, Ban’s spokesman DuJarric said the trust fund set up by the Secretary-General now has 8.8 million dollars in deposits and five million dollars in commitments. He said that in total, 43.5 million dollars was pledged. He added that the UN scribe would continue to urge countries to redeem their pledges as soon as possible. Meanwhile, DuJarric said a UN female staff in Sierra Leone had passed away at the weekend from EVD. DuJarric said “the spouse of the deceased is currently receiving treatment. “All measures to protect staff at the duty station in Sierra Leone are being taken as best as possible under the current circumstances, including the decontamination of the UN clinic and disposal of isolation facility and contact tracing.’’ (NAN)